CASE Tool Assessment #2 Delivery Questionnaire - TA2 Collins

Introduction

The goal of this delivery questionnaire for CASE Tool Assessment #2 is to provide TA7 Provatek guidance on where to find inputs in the delivery, how to run the prototype tools, and how to interpret their results.  Please include this completed questionnaire with your Tool Assessment #2 delivery.

This questionnaire is organized with respect to the “CASE Tool Assessment #2 Plan” document. Before answering each question, please review the corresponding step from the plan for further details. A short answer may suffice if it references specific sections and/or pages of documentation to provide further information.

Questions

Step 1 – Inputs
a. What are the cyber resilience requirements and how are these encoded as inputs?

Our demo focuses on two cyber requirements concerning trust and well-formedness:
1) The Flight Planner shall only receive messages from a trusted source
2) The Flight Planner shall only receive well-formed messages

They are represented in the model formally as AGREE assume-guarantee contracts, and semi-formally as Resolute clauses.  Our tool provides an import mechanism to pull the requirements into the model.


b. Where is the location, and what is the format of Model A in the deliverable?

Model A is an AADL model of a UAV and Ground Station.  The model is divided into several files, located in the ~/git/CASE/CASE_Simple_Example_V2/ directory.  The file of most interest is the SW.aadl file, which contains the mission computer software architecture.  The file is best viewed in OSATE.  Instructions for viewing and modifying the model are in the accompanying CASE Tool Demo.pdf document.


c. What is the description of the runtime mechanism added by the tool to fix problems in Model A (Explanation of AB Fixes)?

A detailed description is given in the CASE Tool Demo.pdf document.  In brief, our solution involves addressing cyber requirement gaps by performing model transformations, in which components, features and annotations are added to the model to produce a more cyber resilient design.  The resiliency methods include formal analysis to demonstrate the model transformations were performed correctly.

Step 2 – Run tool on Model A
a. How does one run the TA2 Collins prototype on Model A?

A complete step-by-step walk-through is provided in the CASE Tool Demo.pdf document.  In the walk-through, all the current tool features are exercised on Model A.  Because our tool is integrated with the OSATE modeling environment, all actions are performed in OSATE.

b. How does one interpret the prototype output to determine that Model A does not meet the cyber resiliency requirement(s)?

The three main analysis tools (AGREE, Resolute, and SPLAT) provide clear outputs that indicate pass/fail status.  The CASE Tool Demo.pdf walk-through intentionally produces both passing and failing tests.  The tool output is located at the bottom of the OSATE window, and in the case of AGREE and Resolute, the results are color-coded (green=pass, red=fail).

c. What is the location of Model B that the prototype outputs?

All model files are kept in the main working OSATE directory: ~/git/CASE/CASE_Simple_Example_V2/.  The initial version of the model (Model A) will be modified throughout the course of the demo, until our TA2 transforms it to the point is satisfies the requirements.  At the end of the demo, the Model will be transformed into Model B.

However, we have placed copies of both the SW.aadl Model A and Model B on the Desktop.  Because they are copies and not part of the demo, they can be viewed at any time and used to compare the current model state.

Step 3 – Run tool on Model B
    a. How does one run the TA2 Collins prototype on Model B?

The process of running AGREE and Resolute on Model B are the same as for Model A, and are described in detail in the CASE Tool Demo.  The interface is graphical, and includes easy-to-navigate menu options and toolbars.

    b. How does one interpret the prototype output to determine that Model B does meet the cyber resiliency requirement(s)?

Similar to the process for analyzing Model A, AGREE and Resolute will output color-coded results in the output pane at the bottom of the window.  The walk-through provides sufficient detail to run the analyses and interpret the results.

Step 4
    (no questions)

